# CaretakerDevice
## Purpose/Background

**The purpose of this Android application is to serve as part of a system of 3 apps that collects information about visits to the house. The system is intended to serve at the homes of those with declining cognitive abilities such as patients with Alzheimer's or other types of dementias because these patients have difficulty recognizing faces and therefore have trouble identifying the visitor that has come to see them.** This app, in particular, is used to validate visitors who are logging in to the system through facial recognition, or a username and password. Once a visitor has signed into the app, the Alzheimer's patient and their caretaker are notified of the visitor's arrival. Furthermore, the visitor's data is stored in Firebase so that when they sign in, the patient gets to see the name of the visitor as well as their information, which includes their name, picture, contact details, relation to the patient, and extended description. The patient also receives a picure so that they can better identify the visitor.


The purpose of this Android application is to serve as part of a system of 3 apps that collect information about visits to the house. The purpose of this system of apps is to inform the resident of the house, an Alzheimer's patient, and their caretaker about who is visiting the house as well as provide information about that visitor. The reason for this is that Alzheimer's patients cannot recognize faces. Therefore, this system requires frequent visitors to create an account and the following times that they visit the house and sign in, the patient and their caretaker get notified of this. In addition, the resident can view a picture of the visitor, their name, contact details, relation, and extended description to better remember who they are but also to understand who is visiting them. In later stages of Alzheimer's, the cognitive abilites of the patient may have declined too far for them to be able to remember people, but they would still have the ability to understand who that visitor is by reading their description and info.

This app in particular is the app for the patient's caretaker. Using this app, the caretaker can view a list of all events that the system logs such as when a certain visitor created an account, when certain visitors signed in, and more. The caretaker will also be able to use the app to approve the accounts of new visitors or decline them based on the information that the visitor provided. Furthermore, since 6 in 10 patients with dementia wander, the app comes comes with a page where the caretaker can track the patient and find their location. The page also places markers on the patient's location and the caretaker's location and calculates the distance between the two. This feature is useful in the case that the caretaker wants to ensure that the patient is in a safe location and is not lost.
